UUID: 03a0e2cd-fce2-48ec-9fdd-4addcaad0021
Status: published
Author: Ben Chuanlong Du
Title: Tips for Linux
Date: 2017-03-18 20:10:13
Slug: linux-tips
Category: Linux
Tags: tips, Linux

**
Things on this page are
fragmentary and immature notes/thoughts of the author.
It is not meant to readers
but rather for convenient reference of the author and future improvement.
**

1. [explainshell.com](http://www.explainshell.com/) 
is a great place for learning shell.


1. broken symbolic link .bashrc (and problem other configuration files/scripts) 
stops Xfce4 (and probably other DEs) from login to the GUI
fix the broken symbolic links solves the problem
 
## Installation

1. After a new kernel is installed, 
the old image is usually kept and you can still boot into the old kernel if you like.
This make is convenient if the new kernel has some issues.

3. The RT image seems to not work, or probably ... try it on virtual machines

2. It seems that on Debian, the Documents directory generated by Mendeley,
however, on Ubuntu, I'm not sure, probably MATLAB ...


## Remote

1. The remote desktop software Remmina leaks the super key, 
which is problematic ...
I think the problem is Ubuntu, not the remote apps ...

2. When you connect to a server, 
you'd better not use the super key. 
Because it is active on both the server and the local machines. 

## File System

9. you cannot change permission of files on NTFS filesystem ..., 
they are determined when mounted

10. Linux hard disk saves properties, user, group of files, 
a different user must have enough permission to mount it

1. do not use gui to remove large file/directories, use command line instead

## Good Practice

1. The home directory is where you should work in, 
you should put all your personal data in your home directory. 
When you need to reinstall the system or backup your data, 
you can make a copy of your home directory. 
However, I go one step further to make things even more convenient. 
I create a directory named archives in my home directory,
put all my persoanl data including configuration files there
(except cloud, such as Dropbox, TeamDrive, etc.) 

## Links

5. Linux does not support variant symbolic links, i.e., you can use environment variables in symbolic links.
and link them to places where needed.
This way, 
I can just make a copy of the archives directory 
which is even more convenient.
Avoid copying unnecessary files.


## Terminal

1. nautilus-open-terminal allow you to open a terminal in any directory 
via short menu.

1. A good backgroup color setting for terminal Hue: 85, Saturation: 36,
Value: 71, Red: 155, Green: 182 and Blue: 117. color name: \#9BB675.
Cursor color: #B93A3A.
The theme goes well with this color setting is "Xterm".
```
^P : move up through history list, one command at a time. (Up arrow key) 
^N : move down (or Down arrow key). 
```
3. Use `Shift+PageUp` and `Shift+PageDown` to scroll up and down in
virtual console.

## Shell

1. White spaces matters a lot in bash. To assign a string to a variable,
you can use `v=some_content` but not `v = some_content`. 
The reason is that space is used to separate bash commands and arguments. 
Bash will treat `v` as a command instead of a variable. 

1. To source in a bash file "a-bash-file" so that commands in the file
will be executed, you can use `source a-bash-file`, or you can use a
period "." in place of "source", i.e., you can also use `.
a-bash-file`.

2. `return` returns a bash function and thus can only be used in a bash
function. The argument of `return` must be a numeric number. `exit`
exits the bash enviroment, i.e., terminate the terminal you are
using.


4. to add path to the "PATH" environment variable, use the following command
```bash
PATH=$PATH:path_to_add
```
If you want to add the path permanently, you can put the command
into the ".bashrc" file under your home directory. If you have to
add lots of paths into the PATH environment variable, you can put
them into a seperate file, and link it in the ".bashrc" file.

## Path in Bash Script

1. Full path of current directory
```bash
$PWD
```
2. base name of current directory
```bash
${PWD##*/}
```
   or
```bash
basename $PWD
```
## cd 

1. use - to go back to last directory

2. use $CDPATH

3. use pushd and popd


## FTP

1. ftp transfer non-text use binary mode

## File Association

1. The user-specific file association information is save in the file \
` /.local/share/applications/mimeapps.list`, and the global file
association information is saved in file `/etc/gnome/defaults.list`.

## Change Hostname

1. To change hostname permanently, change the hostname to what you want
in files [] `/etc/hostname` and [] `/etc/hosts`, and then use the
following code to make the change in effect without restarting your
computer.
```bash
/etc/init.d/hostname.sh start
```
## Network

1. To get the your external ip address, use the following simple command.
```bash
curl ifconfig.me
```          
2. To scan for all ips in a local network, you can use the following command.
```bash
arp-scan -l
```          
You can specify an device to scan by the option `-I`.
```bash      
arp-scan -l -I dev
```          
where "dev" is the device name of your net card. For example, if you
use wireless network, "dev" is probably "wlan0".

## sudo

1. To change the timeout of the sudo password, add the following line
to the end of the /etc/sudoers file.
```bash
Defaults:your_username timestamp_timeout=SECONDS
Defaults syslog=auth,passwd_timeout=10
```
## users and groups

1. `id` displays information of a user.


## Skills

1. If you select some text, right click on it but nothings happens
(i.e., no short menu poped up), it means that the selected text has
already been copied to the mouse buffer. This is one place that
Linux is different from Windows. Notice that no all selct and copy
process is like this. You still have to copy the selected text into
the buffer manually sometimes.

2. Hard drive related operations: <http://www.skullbox.net/newsda.php>

6. check cpu information `cat /proc/cpuinfo` and memory `cat /proc/meminfo`

10. Linux system support *true* random number generator, 
which is implemented by collecting the noise generate by hardwares. 
To use generate *true* random numbers, 
you can use the command.
```bash
head -1 /dev/random | od -i -N 10 | awk '{ print $2 }' 
```
Note that `/dev/random` will block until additional environmental noise is gathered
if the entropy pool in the machine is empty. 
If you do not want to be block, 
you can use `/dev/urandom` to generate random numbers, 
which reuses the internal pool to produce more pseudo-random bits when the entropy pool is empty. 
Though `/dev/urandom` might contain less entropy than `/dev/random` does,
it is still valide for usual use.

## Copy using UI
5. Many Linux/Unix realted applications use `copy on selection`.
This features makes things confusing sometimes. 
For example, if you copy things from one place and want to paste it into a terminal which has `copy on selection` enable.
Then you click on the terminal to paste. 
The thing is that when you click on the terminal, 
you often select a blank line which means that you have copied a blank line before pasting. 
This often make your copy/paste fail to work.
If copy/paste fail to work in some application, 
it is possibly because of the `copy on selection` feature. 
A workaround is to right click ...


