Status: published
Author: Ben Chuanlong Du
Title: SSH Tips
Date: 2020-02-11 17:04:47
Slug: ssh-tips
Category: Software
Tags: tips, SSH, software, remote, Linux

**
Things on this page are fragmentary and immature notes/thoughts of the author.
It is not meant to readers but rather for convenient reference of the author and future improvement.
**

## Tricks and Traps

1. SSH automatically maintains and checks a database containing identification 
    for all hosts it has ever been used with. 
    Host keys are stored in `~/.ssh/known_hosts` in the user's home directory. 
    Additionally, 
    the file `/etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts` is automatically checked for known hosts. 
    Any new hosts are automatically added to the user's file. 
    If a host's identification ever changes, 
    SSH warns about this and disables password authentication 
    to prevent server spoofing or man-in-the-middle attacks, 
    which could otherwise be used to circumvent the encryption. 
    The option `-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no` can be used to turn off strict host key checking
    (on both new host keys and changed host keys).

        :::bash
        ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no your_server

    You can also turn of strickt host key checking permanently by adding the following line into `~/.ssh/config`.

        StrictHostKeyChecking no

    This is helpful for automation when you are in a safe environment (e.g., private VPN). 
    However, 
    be aware of the risk and avoid using it in public environment.
    For more details, 
    please refer to
    [ssh(1) - Linux man page](https://linux.die.net/man/1/ssh)
    and
    [SSH: Disable Host Checking for Scripts & Automation](http://bencane.com/2013/07/22/ssh-disable-host-checking-for-scripts-automation/).

2. You can use the option `-o ProxyCommand='ssh proxy_server -W %h:%p'` 
    to SSH into a machine via a proxy server.
    Below is an illustration.
    For more details,
    please refer to
    [SSH Proxies and Jump Hosts](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/OpenSSH/Cookbook/Proxies_and_Jump_Hosts).

        ssh -o ProxyCommand='ssh proxy_server -W %h:%p' target_server

2. It seems that if you use the local ip address,
    the port number is not important.

3. It might be that the server cannot stand the traffic ...
    it seems that it dies if I copy lots of files into it ...

4. when use sshfs and fuse, you want to add your user account into the fuse group,

        gpasswd -a dclong fuse
        newgrp fuse

5. best to set no password for public keys,
    though it's not very secure,
    it saves lots of potential problems, such as keyring management,
    ssh key for cron and so on

6. must use no passphrase for ssh so that ssh works
    for duplicity and so on,
    many program rely on this, so you'd better not set passphrase for ssh

7. about debian laptop not recognized on local network, it's really strange
    probably because of debian sid

8. ip can be important if you use ssh,
    make sure your ip is allowed to ...

## Questions


1. the connection via ssh to my toshiba is very unstable, I'm not sure what have cuased the problem?
The internet seems OK, or maybe it is because I'm copying larges files over local network

/usr/bin/ssh-copy-id: INFO: attempting to log in with the new key(s), to filter out any that are already installed

/usr/bin/ssh-copy-id: ERROR: ssh: Could not resolve hostname y570.stat.iastate.edu -p 323: Name or service not known

3. SSH: ‘No Route to Host’ error

## References

https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/OpenSSH/Cookbook/Proxies_and_Jump_Hosts

https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-unix-ssh-proxycommand-passing-through-one-host-gateway-server/

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22635613/what-is-the-difference-between-ssh-proxycommand-w-nc-exec-nc

