UUID: 03a0e2cd-fce2-48ec-9fdd-4addcaad0021
Status: published
Date: 2017-03-19 10:00:54
Author: Ben Chuanlong Du
Slug: find-tips
Title: Find Tips
Category: OS
Tags: linux, find, tips, search

**
Things on this page are
fragmentary and immature notes/thoughts of the author.
It is not meant to readers
but rather for convenient reference of the author and future improvement.
**

1. Find all files with extension ".out" in currently directory and its subdirectory, 
    and then make them executable.

        find . -type f -iname *.out -exec chmod +x '{}' \;
        # or you can use 
        find . -type f -iname *.out -print0 | xargs -0 chmod +x


2. Find files whose names contain "conflicted" and remove them.

        find . -iname '*conflicted*' -print0 | xargs -0 rm

## Size Related Finding

1. Find files with 0 size and delete them.

        find /path/to/files -size 0 -ok -exec rm {} \;
        # or you can use
        find /path/to/files -size 0 -ok | xargs rm 


2. Find empty directories. 

        find / -type d -empty


3. Find files greater than 1G.

        find . -xdev -type f -size +1G


4. First find files and then pass them to other commands is a very useful trick.
    For example, 
    you can use the following command to find all R scripts containing the word `paste`.

        find . -type f -iname '*.r' | grep --color=auto paste


## Time Related Finding

1. Find files created with in 60 minutes.

        find . -cmin 60

2. Find files more than 30 days ago
        
        find . -ctime +30

3. Find file less than 30 days ago.

        find . -ctime -30

4. Find files that are exactly 30 days ago.

        find . -ctime 30

2. Find all files modified on the June 7, 2007 in the current directory.

        find . -type f -newermt 2007-06-07 ! -newermt 2007-06-08


3. Find all files accessed on the Sep 29, 2008 in the current directory.

        find . -type f -newerat 2008-09-29 ! -newerat 2008-09-30

4. Find files which had their permission changed on the same day.

        find . -type f -newerct 2008-09-29 ! -newerct 2008-09-30

## File Type Related Finding

1. Find broken symbolic links.

        find . -xtype l
        # or
        find -L . -type l

3. Find executable files in current directory 
        
        find .  -maxdepth 1 -type f -executable

## User Related Finding

10. Find files that belong to a user but writable by its group or other people.

        find /path/to/file -user user1 -perm /022

11. Check file type of all files under the current directory.

        find . -type f | xargs file

-perm mode: File's permission bits are exactly mode (octal or symbolic).
-perm -mode: All  of  the  permission bits mode are set for the file. 
-perm /mode: Any of the permission bits mode are set for the file. 
a little bit trick about how to understand the last 2 permission criterias.
as suggested, think in terms of permission BITs (0/1)

The following command finds all files that readable or writable by the group or (readable or writable) by others.
```bash
find /path/to/file -user user1 -perm /066
```
The following command find all files that readable and writable by the group and (readable and writable) by others.
```bash
find /path/to/file -user user1 -perm -066
```
The following command find all files that readable or writable by the group and (readable or writable) by others.
```bash
find /path/to/file -user user1 -perm /060 -perm /006
```
