UUID: 03a0e2cd-fce2-48ec-9fdd-4addcaad0021
Status: published
Author: Ben Chuanlong Du
Date: 2016-07-13 22:42:03
Slug: nfs-tips
Title: NFS Tips
Category: Internet
Tags: Linux, internet, web, NFS, file system, tips

**
Things on this page are fragmentary and immature notes/thoughts of the author. 
It is not meant to readers but rather for convenient reference of the author and future improvement.
**
 

1. Make sure nfs service is not blocked. 
Check iptables and "/etc/hosts.allow".

2. Make sure nfs service is running on the server.

    sudo service nfs-kernel-server start

2. You can choose the version of nfs using the option `-o nfsvers=n`
while mounting directories.
It seems to me on Debian you have to use `-o nfsvers=3` (based on a previous experience).
    mount -t nfs -o nfsvers=3 192.168.0.8:/home/dclong/downloads mnt/nfsshare
Generally speaking, you do not have to choose a specific version manually.
I tried on Ubuntu (server) and Linux Mint (client) and it works well with the default version (4). 

3. You can choose to change the ownership of a shared file/directory to `nobody/nogroup`
to make it easier to access files,
but this is not required 
and you will probably only have read access unless the option `no_root_squash`
is specified in the server settings 
or your user name is the name on the client as on the server.

4. You can use wildcard in the `/etc/exports` settings. 
For example,
    /nfs 192.168.*.*(ro,sync)
shares /nfs with all local network devices with ready-only access.
more examples
    *(ro,sync) all ips
    *.iastate.edu(ro,sync) all iastate.edu ips

5. You can use net mask in the `/etc/exports` settings.
for example,
    /nfs 192.168.1.0/24(ro,sync)
shares /nfs with local ip address 192.168.1.1 to 192.168.1.254. 
It is equivalent to 
    /nfs 192.168.1.*(ro,sync)
