Status: published
Date: 2019-07-28 22:40:01
Author: Ben Chuanlong Du
Slug: bash-tips
Title: Bash Tips
Category: Programming
Tags: programming, bash, shell, tips, parallel, xargs, wait

**
Things on this page are
fragmentary and immature notes/thoughts of the author.
It is not meant to readers
but rather for convenient reference of the author and future improvement.
**

1. [explainshell.com](http://www.explainshell.com/) 
    is a great place for learning shell. 

2. [Bash-it/bash-it](https://github.com/Bash-it/bash-it)
    is a great community driven Bash framework.

3. It is suggested that you avoid writing complicated Bash scripts. 
    [IPython](https://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
    is a much better alternative.

4. Do NOT use `;` to delimit paths passed to a shell command because `;` terminates shell commands.
  Use `,` to delimit paths if needed.

## Redirect Output

1. Redirect `stdout` to the file `output` and `stderr` to another file `error`.
    ```
    command > output 2> error
    ```

2. Redirect `stderr` to `stdout` (`&1`), and then redirect `stdout` to the file `output`.

        command > output 2>&1

3. Redirect both `stdout` and `stderr` to the file `output`.

        command &> output

4. It seems to me that `tee` does not work well sometimes. 
    Basically, 
    I have a Python script calling shell comamnds using `subprocess.call`.
    The output of the shell commands cannot be captured by `tee`.
    However, 
    redirection using `>` partially works.
    Output of `git` commands (invoked by `subprocess.call`) cannot be redirected correctly.
    Actually, 
    it turned out to be that both `>` and `tee` only works on a file in the current directly. 
    And even so, 
    some output of the `git` command invoked by `subprocess.call` is not captured.
    I have no idea why that happens.
    Not sure whether this is a bug in Mac, the Bash shell
    or due to the fact that I mixed shell commands and the print function in Python.

5. If there are logging from difference resources 
    (e.g., both shell comamnd via `subprocess.call` and the print function in Python) 
    to the standard output,
    make sure you flush the console so that output/error redirection works as expected. 


## References

https://askubuntu.com/questions/625224/how-to-redirect-stderr-to-a-file

https://askubuntu.com/questions/639877/tee-doesnt-get-whole-output-from-the-pipe