UUID: 21443057-903b-44ae-b806-756ae32eeafc
Status: published
Date: 2016-07-13 00:00:35
Slug: general-tips-for-latex
Author: Ben Chuanlong Du
Title: General Tips for LaTeX
Category: Programming
Tags: tips, LaTeX, programming, list


[wikibooks](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Latex) has a comprehensive tutorial about LaTeX. 

[List Structures on WikiBooks](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/List_Structures)

[TeXample.net](http://www.texample.net/) has lots of useful example resources for TeX users.

1. LaTeX does not recognize `~` as one's home directory.

2. Sometimes these old temporary files generated by LaTeX during compiling can lead LaTeX to failure. 
So if you don't think there's anything wrong in your LATeX code 
(especially when the code works well before but it doesn't work now), 
you might want to delete all these temporary files and then compile LaTeX again. 
If you're working on a big LaTeX project and there're many subfolders which containing temporary file to be deleted, 
it's very annoying to deleted them manually. 
A good is to deleted them recursively using command prompt (in windows) or terminal (in linux).

3. When you define you new commands in LaTeX, 
you'd better put them after command `\begin{document}`, 
especially when you import these commands from a existing file, otherwise, 
LaTeX might fail to find these user-defined commands.

4. Usually we don't have to put a string into a quotation mark in LaTeX,
however, we have do this if the string contains space(s).

5. Command `\include{}` cannot be nested, 
and the file being
imported cannot contain command `\setcounter`.

6. You must use `\printanswers` to show contents in solution
environment if you use the document class `exam`. Note this offers a
neat way for controlling the solutions.

7. If you use the `hyperref`, then you'd better not use the option `dvipdfm`.
Without the option `dvipdfm`, both the commands `latex` and  `pdflatex`
work well; with the option `dvipdfm`, only the `latex` wroks.

1. If you want to compile different LaTeX code according to different
    compiler used, you can use `ifpdf`. In your LaTeX code, you can use
    the following syntax to achieve the purpose

        \ifpdf
        %latex code to be compiled using pdflatex
        \else
        %latex code to be compiled using latex
        \fi
            

1. Most LaTeX IDEs support user-defined templates,
so you can create your own LaTeX templates for different purposes.

2. Sometimes you might want to use a picture or some data table in a PDF document,
but you do not have the source picture nor the source LaTeX code. What you
can do is to take a snap shot of the part on the PDF using Adobe Reader,
copy and paste the snap shot into Word, change the word file into PDF
using `Save as ...` function in Word, and then include the PDF pages
into the your LaTeX source file. Some PDF viewer softwares (e.g., evince) might also allows you
to extract the picture directly. 

3. When you use environment `align`, you do not have to use `&` to align
equations manually though can do that. If you don't align equations
manually, they will be aligned automatically.

