UUID: 03a0e2cd-fce2-48ec-9fdd-4addcaad0021
Status: published
Author: Ben Chuanlong Du
Title: Tips for AWK
Date: 2017-03-19 10:22:17
Slug: awk-tips
Category: Software
Tags: tips, awk, text manipulation


[AWK Tutorial](http://www.grymoire.com/Unix/Awk.html)

1. For small structured text files, 
    it is suggested that you use the [q](http://harelba.github.io/q/)
    command to manipulate it.

    For complicated logic, 
    it is suggested that you use a scripting language (e.g., Python) instead. 
    I personally discourage using of `awk` 
    unless you have a large file (that q cannot handle) 
    and the operations you want do are simple.

2. Basic syntax of `awk`

        awk 'BEGIN {start_action} {action} END {stop_action}' file_name

3. Whether to user single or double quote depends on
    whether you use column variables in the expression.
    This is consistent with shell variable substitution.

2. `awk` ignorecase when working on files make unnecessary redundant output
    very annoying, not sure why

3. `awk` does not recognize escaped characters in CSV formatted. 
    Make sure that the file `awk` works on is in simple format.

## Field Delimiter

1. The delimiter must be quoted. 
    For example, 
    if the field delimiter is tab,
    you must use `awk -F'\t'` rather than `awk -F\t`.

2. The filed delimiter of AWK supports can be a regular expression.

        awk -F'[/=]' '{print $3 "\t" $5 "\t" $8}' file_name
        


## Column/Field Filtering/Manipulation

1. Select 1st and 3rd column (seprated by tab)

        awk '{print $1 "\t" $3}' file_name

2. Sum of the 5th filed.

        awk 'BEGIN {s=0} {s=s+$5} END {print s}' file_name

## Rows Filtering/Manipulation

1. Print rows of the file with the first field greater than 3.

        awk '{ if($1 > 3) print }' file_name

2. Print Docker image IDs that has no repositories names.

        docker images | awk '{ if ($1 == "<none>") print $3 }'

3. Print Docker image IDs whose name contains `che` using regular expression match.

        docker images | awk '{if ($1 ~ "che") print $3}'

4. Print rows with 2 fileds.

        awk 'NF == 2' file_name

    Or more verbosally (and more portable)

        awk 'NF == 2 {print} {}' file_name

5. Count the number of fields in each line.

        awk '{print NF}' file_name



## References

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15386632/awk-4th-column-everything-matching-wildcard-before-the
